Hey, Concord, it's good to see you all.
Glad you're here, and glad for all those who are joining us online and all of our campuses.
We're excited to be here today, and hope that God will speak to you through His Word.
I ask you to take your Bible, if you will, and turn to John, chapter six, and we're gonna start in verse 16 in a moment.
We're gonna talk about don't be afraid.
You know, this time of year, people dress up in costumes, and they hide behind corners and behind rocks and in houses, and they try to scare people.
but you know all those kind of things are fun and but you know this time of year it just may be fun but there are some real storms of life that cause people to really be afraid it's been said that you're either that you've either just gone through a storm you're in the midst of a storm right now or you're about to go through a storm of life you're probably in one of those three phases
You've either just been through a storm, you're going through one now, or you're about to be in the middle of one.
And what happens is, in the midst of those storms, there's a very real emotion that can hit people, that can hit you.
And it's the emotion of fear.
Fear can be paralyzing.
It can make it so that you can't think clearly.
You don't know what to feel.
You don't know what to do next.
You don't know what to say.
You seem just sort of stuck, paralyzed.
because of fear, but instead of fear, God wants us to have faith, faith in Him, faith in His Son, faith in His Word, what it says.
And so we're going to look at a story this morning that talks about how we can not be afraid in the midst of the storm because when crises come, it is normal to be afraid.
When crises come though, there is a better way and it's a way of faith.
So let's read this story.
If you will, please stand with me for the reading of God's word.
John chapter six, begin in verse 16.
The Bible says, when evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, got into a boat and started across the sea to Capernaum.
Darkness had already set in, but Jesus had not yet come to them.
A high wind arose and the sea began to churn.
After they had rode for about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea.
He was coming to the boat and they were afraid.
But he said to them, it is I, don't be afraid.
Then they were willing to take him on board.
And at once the boat was at the shore where they were heading.
Let's pray together.
Jesus, this powerful event in your life when you walk the earth.
It shows us so much.
about how we are to deal with the storms of life that come.
And so Father, I pray that we would have eyes of faith.
And I pray, Father, that each one of us would hear you speaking to us this morning and would respond with faith and obedience.
And we would be ready when the storm come.
Or we would recognize, Father, that in the midst of the storm we're going on right now,
It's going on, the Lord, you are here with us.
And so, Father, we just pray that you would just teach us today from your word.
And I pray most of all, Lord, if there's anyone who is listening to this message, and they do not yet know Jesus as Lord and Savior, that today they would surrender their lives to you and be saved.
So we thank you for all these things in Jesus' name, we pray, amen.
So we used to live in the mountains in New York, right?
And it would storm, snowstorm a lot.
Um, probably the, the most we ever saw on one, you know, one day was a little more than a three feet.
Um, we didn't see that very often when we lived in Lake Plice that it was, now we got 12 feet of snow a year and it just kept piling up, piling up, piling up a little different than here though, in terms of, um, you know, the forecast, right?
The weather forecast, whenever they forecast snow in Georgia, you know what it's going to do?
Absolutely nothing.
It's not going to snow at all.
Um, but if they don't,
forecasted that's why we might get hit right with some snow here I mean Lake Placid was we got about the same amount of snow as Buffalo and everybody thinks about Buffalo and how they get hammered by the lake effect and they do but they get like two or three feet at a time they deal with it and then they go a week or two weeks or whatever without having any snow we on the other hand for the ten years we lived there we would get snow about every other day sometimes every day in a week it would start
about this time of year.
As a matter of fact, we saw snow in every month of the year except July and August.
So we saw snow on the ground in our town.
But by the time you get to October, I would always say if it hasn't snowed by Halloween, it's gonna snow on Halloween.
And then by the time you get to November, it snowed so much we don't see our yard.
And then by the time then it keeps piling up, by the time you get to
Easter, finally the snow has melted enough that you see your yard again.
So from Thanksgiving to Easter, you just got this white 12 feet of snow that's building up.
So we were sort of ready for the snowstorms, right?
As a matter of fact, I remember the first time on a Saturday night that it was forecast to snow like 18 inches that night.
I called one of the men at our church and I said, Hey, should we go and cancel church for tomorrow?
And he goes, Derek, are you out of your mind?
We don't cancel church for snow up here.
I mean, he knew us from George originally.
And so, lo and behold, man, we got up the next morning and church attendance was packed.
They knew the rest of the day all they're going to be doing is shoveling snow.
So they might as well come to church anyway.
We're out playing into whatever.
What I didn't expect storm wise was one morning we woke up and this wasn't in the winter.
This was, I just remember there wasn't any snow on the ground.
And we woke up and there was rattling of our radiators.
And I remember thinking, did I,
Snowplow go by and then I was like, no, it's not a snowplow because it's not winter.
And then I thought, well, maybe it's a, there's like army vehicles that moved in our area sometime on train exercises.
Like maybe it was that and looked out the window.
I didn't see anything.
Turned on the news and realized there was an earthquake.
I guess it never dawned on me.
We live in the mountains.
There might be an earthquake every once in a while with the shifting of the plates.
So I don't know what kind of storms you've been through.
Maybe it's hurricanes, you know, maybe it's tornadoes.
Maybe it's no storms, or maybe it's not a natural disaster kind of storm.
Maybe it is more of a storm of life, circumstances of life that are beyond your control.
Circumstances of life, and you're just right in the midst of it, or you've been in the midst of it, or you're going to be in the midst of it.
How do we handle these situations?
When crises come, why do we need help?
When crises come, where is our hope?
That's what we're going to look at today.
So here's the little thing about when Derek teaches from the Bible.
If I have two points like I do today, they usually means in only two points, they usually means the message is going to be long.
You may think it's the opposite, but if I have two points, it's usually long, but the good news for you is there's nine sub points.
So the message will be shorter.
So I got two things working against me today in terms of time, but it's all good.
I want us to walk through this passage and I pray that God would speak to us in powerfully.
The first question we want to ask from this passage is this, why do you need help in the midst of the storm?
Why do you need help in the midst of the storm?
We as Americans are taught from the founding of our country to pick ourselves up by our bootstraps, to be independent, to be rugged, to handle it on our own.
But this passage and life will teach you, you need God.
You need other people to help in the storms.
And why do we need help in the midst of storm?
That's question number one.
So let me give you the first answer.
I got four reasons from this text.
Number one, in the midst of the storm, things seem really dark.
In the midst of the storm, things seem really dark.
Look at verse 16 and 17.
It says, when evening came, nighttime, his disciples went down to the sea, got into a boat and started across the sea to Capernaum.
Darkness,
had already set in, but Jesus had not yet come to them.
You know, this time of year is starting to get darker, earlier and earlier.
When we lived in New York, we were about halfway, latitude-wise, to Alaska.
And so I wasn't expecting, but in the winter, it was like dark at 4.30 in the afternoon.
By 6.30, dude, we were ready for bed.
It felt like it was 8.30 or 9 o'clock.
And so darkness, and you guys know it, when there's not street lights,
There's just, I mean, out in the middle of woods.
Man, darkness is dark.
These disciples, man, it was really dark where they were.
The storm was about to come.
The storm was about to hit them, and it was dark.
The darkness was real.
It's hard to see.
Number two is this, in the midst of the storm, the waves crash down on you.
Look at verse number 18.
It says, a high wind arose,
and the sea began to churn.
A high wind arose and the sea began to churn.
I don't know if you've ever been out much on the boats, out in the water, on the seas, on big lakes.
Man, my dad loves to go deep sea fishing.
My stomach does not enjoy deep sea fishing.
I don't know if you've ever been deep sea fishing before, but man, when you're taking that boat ride out the 30, 35 miles out there,
and you're smelling the salt air and you're watching the bait and get prepared and you smell the bait and you're thinking about that bacon you just had from Denny's that morning.
Let's just say my breakfast came back up.
I didn't enjoy it very much.
Now I had fun being with my dad and my brothers and things like that but just didn't at all.
I don't know, maybe you've been on big boats, maybe you've been on cruise ships, been on some of the military, been on
you know, big boats, big battleships, things like that, you know, been on different kinds, different sides of vessels, but man, those waves, or maybe you've seen on TV, right?
You see all the things are in the movies where the waves are just huge.
Well, the waves are real.
You got to deal with them.
On this day, this story we're looking at, you've got fishermen who were very familiar with the Sea of Galilee, and they were on this, and the waves were so big, even they were afraid.
These were some very big waves.
The right waves were real.
And so when life happens to you, when the doctor comes in and he comes into the room and he says, you have cancer.
That's real.
It hurts.
When your spouse comes in and says, there's no turning back.
I want a divorce.
That's real.
When your boss comes in and says, I'm sorry, we gotta lay some people off.
We don't have a job for you anymore.
That's real.
When your kid comes in the room and says, I've applied to three schools and I keep getting rejected.
When somebody is dealing with an addiction or just hurts or sin, these are real things.
Life is battling against us.
The disciples on this day, it was dark.
There were very real waves that were crashing down on them.
And so you may feel like that.
You may feel like, man, life has got, I mean, just throwing everything at me right now.
I get it.
The waves are real.
The darkness is real.
This is why we need help.
A third reason we need help is this.
In the midst of the storm, you get worn
out.
Verse 19 says, after they had rode about three or four miles, I don't know when's the last time you've rode three or four miles in the midst of a storm that's raging against you, but it ain't easy.
Um, one of the times that I remember paddling in the midst of a stormy conditions, I was a student pastor.
I was next generation pastor at our church.
And our middle school pastor who worked for me, we'd taken some kids on camp, middle school students.
We'd taken about 300 middle school students on the camp.
On the way back home from the camp, our last fun thing we're gonna do before we got back home is we were taking them for a rafting trip on the Nana Hala.
At a very calm part of the Nana Hala, we thought.
It rained, stormed the night before.
So the river was high.
faster.
Because we had so many people in the group, the outfitters didn't have enough experience, didn't have enough guides.
And so they said to us, and they had said this before we got there, so we were ready to do this, we thought.
They said to us, listen, we don't have enough guides for everybody, so if you've got people who have been rafting a lot and feel very comfortable with this, can you just assign them to be the guide in the boat?
So here I was, one of the most experienced people that was rafting,
In a boat, me with six, six gray girls who had never been rafting before.
Guys, it was the longest day of my life.
I'm not kidding.
I prayed so much on that day, and I said, Jesus, if you give me off this river, one or two things will happen.
I'm gonna kill our middle school pastor, or I just promised to never take middle schoolers rafting again.
It was so bad.
I mean, I had to teach them everything, right?
This is an or.
This is your paddle.
This is the T-Grip.
This is where you put your hand, put your other hand, all forward, all back, left forward, right forward, you get it, right?
So we can teach these six little middle school girls how to be safe on the river.
I mean, I knew it wasn't going well immediately when they took us right into the bank and you know how the trees hang over and I'm getting my head hit by trees.
It's a true story.
It was just like, I could tell it was gonna be a long day.
The worst part of the day, I'll get right to the worst part.
We got stuck on a rock, big, flat rock.
And now all the other people in our group just coming by.
I mean, some of them, I kept saying, come over here and try to bump us off the rock, but they, they couldn't navigate their boats to get over there.
And so we were literally stuck on this rock.
I tried everything with my paddle to push us off.
I tried everything, your brain put, that wasn't working.
So I knew, and I was explained to these girls,
I am about to get out of the boat for just a moment.
I'm going to push us off the rock and then I'm going to jump back in the boat.
Immediately six, six grade girls crying.
Then I took one foot and put it out of the boat.
Now I hear a girl go, he's getting out of the boat.
I'm thinking, I just told you I had to, but he went, he's getting out of the boat.
And another girl cries out, he's going to leave us.
When I finally pushed that boat off the rock and climbed in that boat, I looked at those girls and said, we're going to get off this river right now.
I was like, I went into that to dad mode immediately.
Just military general, we're going to get down this river.
They probably had the most boring trip of their life because we didn't do any of the rapids fun or whatever, but we got off the river.
But I remember, I mean that was a big, big deal.
I was worn out.
Storms are powerful.
Man, we can get worn out.
I have a friend who, when he was in college, was going to be a missionary pilot.
He had gotten his pilot's license.
He was going to JARS, which is a mission-sending organization.
The Lord redirected his life, quite frankly, through some circumstances.
And he actually later, he didn't do that.
He served the Lord as an international mission board missionary in Asia.
And then now he's serving in New York.
reaching Chinese and Americans with the gospel of planting churches.
But I remember when he was in college and he had his pilot's license and he said he would take me for a flight.
I remember when we were just a little bit, right?
We're up in this Cessna single engine.
And I remember thinking about the clouds because we were just a couple of 3000 feet, right?
Up in the air.
And I remember looking down at the houses, these big houses.
but they look like monopoly houses.
They look so small.
And I remember thinking, when there's a tornado, because the tornado comes from this cloud, I can't, it's only by the grace of God that every house doesn't get destroyed and that everybody doesn't die because the storm is so powerful.
You may feel like the storm is like that.
It's the kind of storm that is
powerful beating against you.
You're worn out.
This is why we need help.
The fourth reason we need help is because in the midst of the storm, you don't see clearly.
Now I know it's all related to being dark, but here it says in verse 19 again, after they had rode about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea.
He was coming near the boat and they were afraid.
Now here's what you actually might expect.
If you weren't so familiar with this story, you might expect the Bible actually to say this.
They saw Jesus walking on the water, coming towards them, and they were so excited because their hero was there.
I mean, the guy had just fed 5,000 people, maybe 20,000.
He had just healed people, raised the dead.
He's literally walking on the water.
You might have thought they would have been excited.
But the Bible tells us in other gospels that the reason they weren't excited is because they were afraid.
They thought he was a ghost.
They weren't seen clearly.
And so many times when you're in the midst of a storm, again, you're paralyzed with fear.
You don't know what to think.
You don't know what to feel.
You don't see clearly.
This is why we need help because it's dark.
The storms battling against us.
We get worn out.
We don't see things clearly.
So if that's why we need help in the midst of the storm, here's question number two.
Where is your hope in the midst of the storm?
Let me give you number one, five things I want to say about this.
Number one, here's where our hope is.
The Lord is there in the midst of the storm.
Verse 19, again at the end, He was coming near the boat.
Jesus was there in the midst of the storm.
When you are in the midst of a storm, a storm of life, you may not feel
like God is there.
You may not feel like He is there at all, but if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, if He is your Lord and Savior, you can rest assured through His Holy Spirit, He is there even when you don't feel it.
Now, let me make sure I'm really clear, because there may be some you don't yet know Jesus as your Lord and Savior.
You are still trapped in your sin, lost, without hope and without Christ.
Can I just love you enough to say, perhaps if that's you, God is allowing you to go through the storm to help you see that you need Christ.
Because if you don't receive Christ as your Lord and savior, this life storm is nothing compared to the eternal separation from God in a place called hell.
That storm will last forever and ever.
and ever eternal suffering separated from God.
God does not want you to go there.
He sent Jesus to the earth who lived a perfect life, who died on the cross for our sins, who rose from the dead, victorious over hell, grave, and the death forever.
He ascended to the Father.
He draws people to salvation.
He saves all those who trust in Jesus as their Lord and Savior.
And so if you don't know Christ as your Lord and Savior yet, perhaps
The storm is intended to bring you to faith in Christ.
And my prayer for you today would be that you would receive Christ and that you would not see the storm as anything other than God's loving arms drawing you to faith in Jesus.
Now, if you follow Christ, if you're a believer, do you recognize then the midst of the storm, you can take assurance that Jesus is there.
God is there.
He never leaves your forsake you.
You may be worn out.
The disciples who were rowing this boat, some of them, you know their occupation, fishermen.
They were seasoned fishermen who had been on this lake a lot.
As a matter of fact, this lake is about eight miles wide.
They had rode three or four miles.
They had rode halfway.
They were worn out when they were worn out in the dark, when they were at the end, not knowing how to see things clearly and being battered.
You know what they need to know?
They need to know Jesus was there and He came to them.
You know what?
When you're worn out by the storms of life, you know what you need to know?
God is there.
He is with you.
He is not just up there.
He is in here as your Lord and Savior.
He is with you.
Number two, not only is there hope because the Lord is there in the midst of the storm.
Number two, there is hope because the Lord is the master of the storm.
There's another storm that's talked about in the Bible.
Another time that Jesus and the disciples are on the boat.
And in that storm, Jesus is asleep on a cushion, right?
You go wake him up and Jesus speaks.
He says peace, be still.
And the storm is calm.
On this day, Jesus shows that he is the master of the storm, very simply by something you can't do.
You cannot walk on water.
I know some of you are really good skiers.
I enjoy snow skiing.
I shouldn't say I'm good.
I'm not very good at water skier at all.
Some of you can water ski and you can barefoot ski.
And man, you do it and it looks great.
And all of a sudden, but you know what?
You go down.
After that momentum ends, you go down.
Jesus, man, just walking on the water shows that he is the master over the storm, master over all the elements.
He had just proven that by feeding the 5,000.
the fish and the loaves, but now on this storm, he is walking on the storm.
So God in his sovereignty as Jesus, the master of the storm.
And so this is where our hope is.
Your hope is in God because here's what happens.
Sometimes in the midst of the storm, Jesus heals it and calms it in an instant.
We already looked at that in the last few weeks.
There's sometimes a man, it's a lifetime of suffering, you can't do it, but Jesus can heal it in an instant.
It's Jesus who can raise the dead back to life.
It's Jesus who can save a woman at a well.
In an instant change her life and all the people in the village that trust in him.
Jesus can do that in an instant and sometimes he does speak, peace, be still and in that moment the storm has ceased.
But sometimes the storm doesn't stop.
But when Jesus speaks peace, the peace that you sense is in your heart.
And you are calm in the midst of the storm.
It's that peace.
He is sovereign the master over the storm because sometimes the greatest storm is not all the external stuff.
The greatest storm is in your heart and mind.
And when he brings you the peace that passes all understanding, we say, thank you, Lord.
You are the master of the storm.
Here's number three.
Where's your hope in the midst of the storm?
The Lord is there in the midst.
The Lord is the master.
Number three, the Lord speaks truth in the midst of the storm.
The Lord speaks truth in the midst of the storm.
Verse 20.
But he said to them, it is I, don't be afraid.
In English, that's the right rendering of the Greek phrase.
It is I, don't be afraid.
That's the way we would say it in English.
But if you read it in the Greek New Testament,
Here's what Jesus said.
Jesus said to them, I am.
Don't be afraid.
You say, what's the significance of that?
Moses was at the burning bush, and he was saying to God, okay, God, you're calling me, you're asking me to go back to Egypt and to lead the people, Israelites, out of slavery in Egypt.
Who are you?
I need to tell them your name.
Who is it that is sending me?
And God says to him, Moses, you tell them, I am is sending you.
I am who I am.
The great I am.
In other words, because Moses began to say, but, but Lord, I can't talk good enough.
He says, you're not a good spokesman, but I am.
But Lord, I'm not this.
I'm not that.
Moses, you're not, but I am.
For every excuse Moses had, God's answer was, I am.
You say to Jesus in the midst of the storm, but I'm afraid.
And he says, don't be afraid.
I am is with you.
But Lord, I can't do this on my own.
No, no, you can't, but I can.
I am.
everything you need me to be, Jesus says.
It's the truth of scripture.
This is why we say in the midst of the storms and everyday life, a commitment to reading God's word is so vital for your life because when you consistently read God's word, God at just the right time will speak a word of truth to you from his word
to teach you something or remind you of something that you haven't thought about in a long time that is just the word you need to know that God is with you.
And it's the word of direction and the word of clarity that you need for the situation.
Because again, we go back, we get stuck and paralyzed by fear.
This storm is overwhelming.
What the truth, they need to know on that day is that Jesus is the great I am.
And He could say to them, don't be afraid.
You, in the midst of your storm, man, you continue to seek God and seek His Word.
And through His grace, through His Holy Spirit, through His Word, He will speak to you the truth at just the right time.
The Lord speaks truth to you in the midst of the storm.
I know in my own life, even recently, some things going on, and God just spoke to me clearly through His Word.
And just unlocked, He was like, yeah, you just see it so clearly.
The Lord speaks truth.
in the midst of the storm.
Number four, where's your hope in the midst of the storm?
Here's number four, the Lord gets you from where you are to where you need to be.
Look at verse 21.
21 says they were willing, then they were willing to take him on board and at once the boat was at the shore where they were heading.
So it's like they're rowing, they're rowing, they're rowing, they get to the middle of the sea
They're rolling, they're stuck there, the storm's all around, it's very real, it's dark, can't see clearly, waves battling against them, battering them.
They don't know what they're gonna do, they're afraid, they're worn out, Jesus comes to them, he's there, he's the master of the storm, he speaks truth, and all of a sudden when they take him into the boat, he gets them immediately from where they are to where they need to be.
For you again, God may immediately unlock something in your mind, your heart, your thinking.
It helps you to get there.
He may just solve the problem right there.
He also may, in that moment, put you on the course in the right direction that you know, ah, this is where I need to go.
And you begin to walk one day at a time.
Sometimes it's one hour at a time, depending on the storm.
Sometimes it's moment by moment.
It's like, Lord, just help me to breathe.
You've all been there.
We've all been there.
The Lord gets you from where you are to where you need to be.
So it's about having faith in Him.
And so what's the last thing?
Where's your hope in the midst of the storm?
I can tell you this.
For my storms, it's not in me.
Jesus is my hope.
And for you, your hope is not in you.
It is in God.
It is in Jesus to help you because He is the great I am.
You will get worn out.
You will not see things clearly.
You will experience the battering of the waves.
But in the midst of that, because Jesus is the great I am, He will help you and He will get you through and He will sustain you and He will set you on a course to get you from where you are to where He wants you to be.
Through his word he will speak to you, his spirit will fill you, and so my prayer to you is that.
And so the question is, as we conclude, are you experiencing a crisis right now?
If you are, put your faith and your trust in Jesus.
He is the great I am.
Or maybe you know someone who is.
If you know someone who's experiencing a crisis, speak this word of truth to them.
Tell them about this story.
Tell them the things that God has spoken to your heart.
This is one of the reasons we need our brothers and sisters in Christ because we help each other.
We look each other in the eye.
We pray together and we say, God is with you.
God is there in the midst of the storm.
God is the one.
Jesus is the one who will help you.
He is the master of the storm because we get paralyzed by fear.
But our brothers and sisters in Christ coming alongside
and say, yes, God will be with you as well.
Let's pray together.
Heads are bowed and eyes are closed.
So my question to you is, are you going through a storm right now?
If you are, I pray that you will trust in Christ.
Moment by moment, day by day, committed to his word, committed to dependent on him,
Leading on Him, He is the great I am.
He is the one that is everything you need.
Will you trust in Him in the midst of the storm?
And will you come alongside brothers and sisters who are also going through storms and help them as well?
There may be others in this room watching online and at all of our campus.
And you need to know Christ
as your Lord and Savior.
Could I ask you this day and this morning if that's you?
Because maybe, as we said earlier, maybe in God's sovereignty He's allowing you to go through a storm to draw you to faith in Christ and you're at the end of yourself and you realize you need Jesus.
You're struggling, you're sin, it ain't getting you there.
You need forgiveness, you need peace,
You need Christ.
If that's you this morning, right now, would you trust in Jesus as your Lord and Savior?
Just pray to Him and say, Jesus, save me.
Jesus, save me.
I commit my life to you.
Now, in just a moment, we're going to stand.
My head's about nice and close right now.
We're going to stand and we're going to sing.
And if this morning you're needing to receive Christ as Lord and Savior, you're trusting in Him.
Then when we stand and sing, would you come to me or one of other pastors and just say today, I'm giving my life to Christ.
Others, you may need to come and make a commitment to be baptized soon.
That's your next step of obedience as a follower of Jesus.
And we'll get that set up.
Maybe others you want to come and become a member of this church and you want to express that to us.
Hey, you may want to come and let us pray for you and with you.
We'll be honored.
Or maybe you want to come and just
Pray by yourself or with a friend or family here at the front kneeling or standing.
Maybe there's a storm you're going through and you're like, Hey, I just need, I need to give it all to Jesus.
I've got to lean on him.
Let me pray and we'll stand and sing and you come.
Lord Jesus, we pray that you would help each of us now to obey you and respond in the way you want us to respond.
Help each one of us to respond with faith and obedience to what you're calling us to do.
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.
Please stand and you come.